The global viral virome can be defined as the total collection of viruses in nature. It is said that there are more viruses than stars in the universe. However, public sequence databases report only a negligible fraction of the global virome. Nonetheless, over the years, major advances in the “Omics” technologies, including high-throughput sequencing and high-performance computing, have led to the generation and warehousing of large amounts of data and have greatly improved the understanding of viruses. There are several public repositories, ranging from primary, secondary to specialist, that warehouse viral sequence data. The Virus Variation Resource ([NCBI Virus] (https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/labs/virus/vssi/)) is a newly-designed, secondary viral sequence data resource hosted by the National Center for Biotechnology Information, which provides a comprehensive collection of viral sequence data focusing on integration, standardisation and harmonisation of metadata across records. This enables systematic interrogation of the database across up to 23 standard metadata dimensions for important insights that provide a better evaluation of the current landscape of the global virome. Herein, we present VIROMEdash, a visualizer for NCBI Virus that mines the existing records and presents insights over five major metadata dimensions (taxonomy class, host-organism, geography, collection date, and Baltimore class). The portal is dynamic and visuals are interactive with options for download. Showcased are mined results of NCBI Virus data, up-to-date as of May 2022 and, also allows users to upload their own dataset or an accession list from NCBI Nucleotide/Protein/Virus database. VIROMEdash is publicly available at [https://viromedash.herokuapp.com/](https://viromedash.herokuapp.com/).
